# How to push code to GitHub- Step 1

 First you're going to go into GitHub and click on the plus symbol beside your account icon. You will see a menu, and you're
 going to select the top option 'new repositiory'. It will take you to a page where there will be a field with a label 'Repository name'.
 You're going to need to enter the name of your repository (Idealy with no spaces).
 
 Underneath that field, there is another one labelled 'Description', and as you might have guessed you will need to write a description of your
 repository. It is optional but it's also ideal if you want people to get a clear background image of what's going on in your repository.
 
 Scrolling down, you can then select your privacy settings to public or private, choose to add a README file (file that you can further describe
 and explain your repository) or not, choose to add a .gitignore or not and select your license type.

# Step 2

For the next step, in your terminal you are going to direct into your file's folder. 
E.g: Your-Computer:theUser$ cd TheLocationOfYourFolder
* A little bit of info: cd = change directory

Then, after pressing enter, you should see something like this:
Your-Computer:TheLocationOfYourFolder theUser$

That means that you are now a step closer to reaching the location of your folder.
If the location of the folder has a lot of other folders and you think it might be easier to list them all,
you can simply type 'ls' meaning list following the line of code pre generated by the computer.

It may look something like this:
Your-Computer:TheLocationOfYourFolder theUser$

After you type your command it would look like this:
Your-Computer:TheLocationOfYourFolder theUser$ ls

Following pressing enter, all items in the location would be displayed and you can try to navigate
your folder from there by typing the name after the location.

E.g: Your-Computer:TheLocationOfYourFolder theUser$ folderName

# Step 3

Now for step 3, After navigating into your folder, type 'git status' to see which files still need
to be added and the files will be shown in red.

to add these files, type 'git add' and then the name of the file
and do this for all the different files shown.

However, if there are many files in the folder to add, 'git add -u' adds all of them at once.
When you are finished adding the files, type 'git status' again to make sure those files have been added.
If you see all of them in green, it means they have successfully been added.

# Step 4

So now all your files have been added, type the command "git commit -m 'My first commit'".
Next, type the command 'git remote add The name of your repository https://github.com/yourUsername/repositoryName'

# Step 5

And for the final step, to push your file, type 'git push --set-upstream repositoryName master'.
And you should see git working to push your files, displaying messages like this:

Counting objects: 5, done.
Delta compression using up to 4 threads.
Compressing objects: 100% (5/5), done.
Writing objects: 100% (5/5), 55.51 KiB | 9.25 MiB/s, done.
Total 5 (delta 0), reused 0 (delta 0) 

Remember, that was just an EXAMPLE, and of course not all.

So after you've successfully pushed your repository, you can go to the GitHub website to change the default branch to 'master', where we
uploaded the repository by going to your repositories > the one you uploaded > the branch tab > the two parallel opposite arrows next to 
'Default branch' > the opposite arrows again > the dropdown on the pop up > select the desired default branch > update

That's how you change the default, but if you want to delete the other branch that is NOT the default, go back to the branch tab and you
should see a dust bin icon next to the other non-default branches. Click the dust bin of the branch you want to delete and you are done!

That's how to push a file to GitHub and a little dive into managing branches.




